Welcome to adding a sky box in this video you will add a sky box to our scene.
Use that sky box as the primary light source for the whole scene.
So just as in this example we have Suzanne the monkey sat on a plane here lit by one lamp.
Now the moment we add a sky box to that it becomes a much more vibrant image and much more interesting
and the whole lighting in the scene is done by that Sky Box.
Plus the original amp that was in the scene.
So now we got an idea of what we're going to do.
Let's hop straight on over in a blender.
Okay so now we're over in blender.
The first thing I'm going to make sure that I do so I'm not sure I've done it yet is saved my file.
Excellent.
Going to Go go ahead and open up a new farson go file a new and reload start up file because we're about
to play with some stuff and I don't want us to break our bunny at this point in time.
So we've got our default cube here we use that as the object in the last seen them skin to lift it up
a little and finally create a mesh plain underneath some skin to add a plate and scale it up.
Excellence is nice and big and perhaps going to grab that and just lower it down ever so slightly and
let's just quickly render that to see how that's looking so far in cycles render for this one by the
way just to make sure you're aware that's going to position the camera so we can see a bit more off
the sky.
So in the outline I know it's a big cramped on my screen here in the outline and been to select the
camera in the.
3D view I'm going to open up the properties pane with the n key and scroll down here too.
Oh I need to be in the camera views of view camera and then I'm going to lock camera to view.
That's just going to allow me to move about quite freely and position the camera where I want it to
be.
And I do want to see a bit of the background as well.
ALAN going to render that again.
Excellent so you've got all of this lot going on here now in order to add a sky box there are a couple
of ways of doing this.
By the way we're going to do it is actually add an image to the world around.
So looking at the fact we're looking at something called the welte so only propertys tab over here is
a picture of a little world.
And if we click on that it gives us a series of options.
Now at the moment we're focussed primarily on where it says surface and at the moment it's got a colour
that is grey.
Now if you change the colour of that nothing will happen here because this is a rendered view.
But I'm going to hop over here.
Not lock for cameras for the viewing to assume in ever so slightly and just switch to render to see
what's happening.
So this colour here actually changes the colour of the world the entire background everything apart
from the plane is going to be this orange colour.
So what we can do is replace that colour with an image.
And there are two types of images that make it very good for backgrounds like the one we're going to
use.
There's an angular image and I remember the other one.
Equatorial no iqua were Find out in a few moments.
Okay so I'm going to click on News Notes there and it needs to be a background which is grey and on
colour I'm going to click the little dots to the right here.
And loads of options here an environment texture is the one that we want.
Now when you select environment it is going to go that horrible pink which means there's not texture
applied yet.
And here we go.
It Quy rectangular.
That's the word I was thinking of every rectangular mirror ball or angular projection angle view.
There's loads of different names for them.
You'll notice the difference between the two of them one essentially is a large stretch out slightly
distorted rectangle and one looks like a sphere.
And where have a look at both of these and see over time.
So let's start with Mirrorball and in your set pack.
If you've not downloaded it please hop back to the assets lecture now and go grab your asset pack and
I'm going to go to open and I'm going to go find my assets.
They'll be slightly different to where you guys store yours and section assets and we have angular map
so we're going to select angular map 24 J pecc.
Excellent.
Now you see straightaway the scene has changed completely and in fact looks a lot more natural.
Now one thing to bear in mind here is because the light is coming from the scene around us.
It's going to be a bit noisier than just from a simple lamp so you will have to increase your samples
when using this type of lighting to get a comparatively smooth image compared to using a lamp.
Now this is a mirror ball and as you can see if I hop out of the camera here and well anywhere will
do so just move round.
We've now got a world around us.
It looks a bit weird on certain areas there seems to be a hole or a point here.
Now this will depend on the quality of your image that you're using these are quite basic images.
And it works pretty well providing you are not looking that way.
That looks very ominous.
If we change Mirrorball to Quee rectangular you can see it doesn't look right at all.
You end up with oh I'm looking through my plane at the moment.
Zoom away.
We've got vats in there and that they're now if we go and open and actually select this item here on
the file menu here.
Well what's this one called a forgotten file browser on this far browser header.
You've got these four pages next to one another but show us images and this is a great way of seeing
that the angular map is this kind of spherical thing and that's the Mirrorball selection and the equally
rectangular ones are the sky moonscape here and Sky photo.
Now let's go ahead and apply one of those.
Wow that looks pretty awesome.
And if we zoom back in to our object we see that the colour has changed because it's primarily blue.
We've actually got ourselves a blue light cast on the rest of our scene.
Now if we scroll down a little further in the properties I'm going to make this window a little bit
bigger for us.
You've got this strength here so you can actually make the light coming from that background.
Stronger or weaker.
So this night time scene for instance obviously we said it to zero.
There is no background no light emitted but obviously with a nice house in it.
From Well I say it wouldn't.
It probably wouldn't be that bright.
So we can play with the figures here and lower it down to maybe not point not one that's probably too
low.
Let's try not point north 5.
You can tinker with these two hearts in lights.
In fact there's a moon there so be quite cool to have the light coming from that direction.
How awesome is that right.
I feel a challenge for you guys coming up.
Okay I'd like you to add a sky box to our scene so add a sky box to our bunny.
Now there are a couple of options to choose from.
Supplied in the asset pack.
Now please feel free to try your own photos or other sky maps.
You have to just give you an idea what I'm shooting for.
I'm going to be shooting for something along these lines.
Have a grey murky day.
Pretty typical day in England anyway.
Both the video now and give that a go.
OK guys welcome back.
Let's go ahead and create our skybox.
Okay so let's go and open up our bunny.
Now once this is open obviously the last thing we rendered here was the eye.
It doesn't show any image.
Someone might pop into my 3-d view.
Oh man we've got the eye there and the unhide everything for the moment just so I can see what's going
on on the larger picture.
We're going to have to switch around to a different camera rather than just the camera.
We're still moving the I can turn off that's him.
Let's see if this camera will do the 30 of the 80 mill one is probably the one that I want.
So I'm going to.
Cameras and set the cameras to objects.
Yes there's a good bit of the background in there.
That's what we want to see.
I am just going.
I'm not going to end this at the moment because I've done this particular view before and that's going
to take a few moments to render.
But what I am going to do is go straight to the world settings and I'm going to add something to click
on News Notes.
It is a background that's absolutely fine but cover up.
Well I'm going to select an environment texture.
I'm going to do the equip rectangular one which is fine I'm going to open that up.
Go to my section assets and I've got one called Sky photos three and I'm going to pick that one.
I'm just gonna hop here in to rended mode in the viewport shading and see how that looks.
And we've got some clouds coming out there that's looking pretty good.
Let's just move away from here and see how it's how it's mapped out that's fine.
It's like a typical British day actually it looks quite stormy.
I'm quite happy with that.
Excellent.
How did you guys get on.
Of course the final thing to do here is render it of course.
Let's go and hit the render button and let's make this window a little bit bigger so I can see what's
going on now.
I'd love to see what you guys have come up with.
Really look forward to seeing how your rabbits are turning out.
I'm really interested in how this one's going to turn out.
Well we can already see straightaway that the fur itself has taken on a much brighter more vibrant appearance.
This is great bit of lighting because the lighting is now coming from all around our by me rather than
just a one lamp that was in the scene before.
So do render out your bunny.
Please share it in the discussion so I can see how you guys are getting on.
And I will see you in the next lecture.